my name is john vandebrooke and on
behalf of expert village i want you to
take a look at beginning encaustic
painting
alright when you want to start working
with the stylus there's a little screw
at the point here that you change the
points by loosening the screw just turn
that screw a half a turn and that'll
loosen the point and you can then put
another point in if you loosen it too
much it's going to fall out that screw
is going to be hot and you're gonna hack
a darn time to get that hot screw back
in there again so just turn it a half a
turn we have different points to work
with we have this triangle shaped piece
this round piece the little pen point
like this here is a very small mini iron
shape like that which I think I find
this the most useful one right there and
a wire brush now the wire brush you
can't really use like a paintbrush
unless you want to just cause yourself
all kinds of grief because the little
wire bristles here will twist all up and
then you have to take a sharp tool and
straighten out each piece of wire so the
way I use this is mostly to drag it
through wax and in a dragging motion and
create sort of a feathery effect with it
it's just less trouble using it that way
but let's take this pen point for
instance this lets you do all kinds of
very detailed little lines like this and
so let's say when we later talked about
working with rubber stamps this lets you
do very detailed designs with the point
for instance you can just touch that to
the wax block and the wax sucks up
inside that little pin point like an old
quill pen holds the melted wax right
between the two nibs like that and you
could touch it to the card
you know let's say we just do a little
bird right here say we could just put a
little bird up here touch the wax make a
little point pull the wax up like that
so you can put little details in your
painting like that if you wanted to take
this nub and start to work with painting
and
oh let's say we just you know put in a
tree here you know we could come up just
start making images with this point very
nice for making flowers trees it also
makes a wonderful cactus very simply
just by touching to the green and
pulling straight down you can make a
nice little cactus and then you would
come back with this point and do all the
little detail thorns that come off the
cactus with that point but exploring the
different tips is really fun especially
here's this little round image that can
just be set down like that on top of
your card lift it up and you'll have a
little moon or Sun in your picture